### Goals
- The trainee will know how to manage Ansible inventories
- The trainee will know how to create Ansible playbooks and roles
- The trainee will know how to provision machines with Ansible
  

### Tasks
- What are the differences between Ansible and other tools like Chef or Puppet?
- What is the `when` option and how do you use it?
- How do you extend a conditional over multiple tasks without defining the `when` conditional multiple times?
- How do you use blocks?
- How do you include tasks from external files?
- What is the diffrence between `include` and `import`?
- How do you pass variables at the command line?
- How do you ask for variable prompt?
- Why would you prefer to use specific modules over `command` or `shell` modules?
- Why is a bad idea to commit secret data into a git repository?
- What are some of the ways to keep secret data out of a repository (Using Ansible)?
- What are the advantages and downsides of Ansible Vault?
- Where would you save Ansible configurations?
- Where is the best place to look for documentation about an Ansible module?
- How do you install a yum package using Ansible?
- How does Ansible indicate if something changed?
- Where are some places variables can be registered?
- How are variables referenced?
- How do you loop over a list or a dictionary in Ansible?
- How do you define dependencies between roles?
- Why would you use the omit filter?
- Why would you use a mandatory variable in Ansible? and how do you define them?
- What is a handler?
- What are the benefits of a role over a playbook?
- Where would use save your variables when you are writing a role?
- Why would you create more than one file in the tasks directory when you’re writing a role?
- Use ansible to:
  - Print a line to a file
  - Create a directory and 3 files under it
  - Enable the firewalld service

### References
- [Ansible Documentation](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/index.html)