### Goals
- The trainee will know how to deploy and configure Checkpoint FW Cluster
- The trainee will learn how to manage his firewall 

### Deployment
- Deploy 3 VMs with R80.20 ISO.
- Configure all the 3 in the same subnet:
  - The 1st as SMS - Security Manager Server.
  - The 2nd and 3rd as Gateway Servers.

### Configuration
- Read about ClusterXL.
- Create a ClusterXL and add the 2 GWs to the cluster. Make sure you create a SIC between each GW and the SMS.
- Connect to the SMS and create a management rule. Read about this rule before.
- Plublish & Install the rule to the 2 GWs and make sure the installation succeed.

### Policy Management 
- Read about [Security Management Administration Guide](https://sc1.checkpoint.com/documents/R80.10/WebAdminGuides/EN/CP_R80.10_SecurityManagement_AdminGuide/html_frameset.htm?topic=documents/R80.10/WebAdminGuides/EN/CP_R80.10_SecurityManagement_AdminGuide/136972)
- Download the [following architecture][architecture]. Based on this architecture and customers' requirements, create a new policy. Make sure the customers' requirements make sense:
  1. Hi, I try to do a curl check from my workstation to the web server in ports 80,443 and it fails.
  2. Hi, I try to do a ping to the storage server and it fails.
  3. Hi, I can't send logs from every server to the monitor server. I have Grafana, ElasticSearch and Splunk.
  4. The time is not synchronyzed in all the servers. I wrote a script that takes time from the NTP server to all the other. Please open port 6060/udp for the script please.
  5. The DB can't access the storage from the storage server. The storage protocol is iSCSI.
  6. The web aplication can't access the data from the DB server. The DB is MongoDB.
  7. I can't do SSH from the monitor server to the storage server.
  8. I can't do SSH from my workstation to the DB server.
  9. The DB server is not able to recognize the monitor server by the domain name. 
  10. I am a developer and I want to open ports 8001-8020/tcp from the DB server to the Web server for my programs. My production system is down from the last week!
- Publish & Install the policy to the 2 GWs. Make sure it works.

### Logging
- Ask your trainer to show you how to gather information from the firewall's logs.


[architecture]: architecture.odg "architecture"
