### Goals 
- The trainee will get familiar with Bash
- The trainee will learn how to write Bash scripts

### Tasks 
- Read [Introduction to Bash for beginners](https://livecodestream.dev/post/introduction-to-bash-for-beginners/)
- What is Bash script? List some advantages of using bash scripts.
- In which situations bash script is preferred over other scripting languages?
- How do I print output in bash?
- Which commands reads input from the terminal in bash?
- Explain about the different types of loops and give a use-case for each one of them.
- How does the shell knows in which environment to run a given script? Give two options.

### Hand On
- There is an action called "Hashara" (Blackening) which means we can export a file from our network, but before that we have to ensure the file doesn't contain any classified information (IP addresses, DNS records etc...).
Write a bash script called "Hashara.sh" that automates the following processes:
   - The script should receive a file path as an argumant.
   - Make sure the given file exists, if not prompt the user to enter a file path (keep asking till the file exists)
   - Replace all the IP adresses to X.X.X.X and DNS records that ends with .idf.cts to omer.hamelech
   - Exports the final file to the same directory with .blackend without changing the source file.
- Write a script that configures an interface with all the required components
- Write a script that calculates the number of hops to the destination while running the command 'traceroute google.com'
  - Add a loop to the script that runs multiple traceroute commands and prints to the screen the traceroute command with the highest number of hops

### Refernces
- [Bash cheat-sheet](https://devhints.io/bash)
  
